# stdmod 0.2.6.7

- Updated pkgdown site to bootstrap 5. (0.2.6.1)
- Fixed a missing whitepace in the note of
  the `print()` method of the `summary()` output of
  `std_selected()`. (0.2.6.2)
- Added `to_standardize` to `std_selected()` and
  `std_selected_boot()`. (0.2.6.3)
- Fixed a bug with `confint.std_selected()` when
  `type = "lm"` and bootstrapping is requested. Should
  not be an issue because *t*-based CIs should not be
  used when bootstrapping is requested. This option
  is just for testing. (0.2.6.4)
- Updated examples to use `to_standardize` or
  mention it as a shortcut. (0.2.6.5)
- Updated vignettes to introduce `to_standardize`. (0.2.6.6)
- Fixed a link in a vignette. (0.2.6.7)

# stdmod 0.2.6

- Improved the printout of the `summary()` of `std_selected()`
  and `std_selected_boot()` outputs. (0.2.4.9001).
- Fixed deprecated functions and arguments in `ggplot2`. (0.2.4.9002)
- Fixed a problem  with wrapping long lines in the
  printout of the `summary()` of `std_selected()`. (0.2.4.9003)
- Update GitHub actions.
- Fixed a missing link in an Rd file in old macOS machines. (0.2.6)
- Use `bibentry()` in CITATION. (0.2.6)

# stdmod 0.2.4

- Fixed a bug in `std_selected()`: It now works correctly when
  a variable in the data frame is a factor. (0.2.0.1)
- Added `confint()` and `coef()` methods for `cond_effect`-class
  objects. `confint()` can return confidence intervals based on
  *t* statistics, which are appropriate in some situations. (0.2.2)
- `print()` method for `cond_effect`-class
  objects can print confidence intervals based on
  *t* statistics. (0.2.2)
- Added `do_boot` to `std_selected_boot()`. If set to `FALSE`,
  it will not do bootstrapping. (0.2.3)
- `cond_effect_boot()` will disable bootstrapping in the original
  call if the output is generated by `std_selected_boot()`,
  to avoid redundant bootstrapping inside bootstrapping. (0.2.3)
- Added `do_boot` to `cond_effect_boot()`. If set to `FALSE`,
  it will not do bootstrapping. (0.2.4)

# stdmod 0.2.0.0

- Changed the default of `confint()` and
  `vcov()` for `std_selected`-class object.
  If bootstrap CIs are requested, then bootstrap CIs
  and VCOV based on bootstrapping should be returned. (0.2.0.0)


# stdmod 0.1.7.7

- Updated references. (0.1.7.5)
- Minor changes due to Roxygen updates. (0.1.7.5)
- Added R CMD Check action (0.1.7.6)
- Minor changes due to Roxygen updates. (0.1.7.7)
- Fixed a typo in CITATION

# stdmod 0.1.7.4

(All major changes after 0.1.7.1)

- Fixed a bug in `plotmod()`. It now correctly handles more than two levels
  when `w_method` is set to`"percentile"`. (0.1.7.2, 0.1.7.3)
- Fixed a typo in DESCRIPTION. (0.1.7.4)

# stdmod 0.1.7.1

(All major changes after 0.1.5)

- Added `plotmod()` for plotting moderation effects. This function will check
  whether a variable is standardized. If yes, will note this in the plot.
- `plotmod()` can also plot a Tumble graph (Bodner, 2016) if `graph_type` is
  set to `"tumble"`.
- Updated vignettes to use `plotmod()` instead of `visreg::visreg()`.
- Added `cond_effect()` for computing conditional effects. This function
  will check which variable(s) is/are standardized. If yes, will note
  this in the printout.
- Added `cond_effect_boot()`, a wrapper of
  `cond_effect()` that can form nonparametric bootstrap confidence intervals
  for the conditional effects, which may be partially or completely
  standardized.
- Updated the print method for the summary of `std_selected()` and
  `std_selected_boot()`.
- Added more vignettes to introduce the new functions.
- `stdmod_lavaan()` now returns an object of the class `stdmod_lavaan`,
  with methods print, confint, and coef added.

# stdmod 0.1.5

- Changed the column order of the coefficient table
  in `std_selected_boot()` output. Bootstrap confidence
  intervals are placed next to parameter estimates.
- Added `vcov()` method for `std_selected()` output. If bootstrapping is used,
  it can return the variance-covariance matrix of the bootstrap estimates.
- Added `confint()` method for `std_selected()` output. If bootstrapping is used,
  it can return the bootstrap percentile confidence intervals if requested.
- Other minor fixes.

# stdmod 0.1.3

- Set up gh-pages and fix dependency in vignette.

# stdmod 0.1.2

- Updated the methods for `std_selected()`.

# stdmod 0.1.1

- The first version.
